+++
date = "2015-06-25T18:39:24+03:00"
slug = ""
tags = ["", ""]
title = "Open Voices, Issue 9: How to get started with open source"
+++

rating: 5

An open source project cannot succeed without a powerful community that supports
its development. At the same time, Eric Raymond said in The Cathedral and the
Bazaar that a necessary pre-condition for success in an open source project is
having something runnable and testable to play with.

Communities are groups of individuals sharing common interests. FINkers United
is not different, all members having the same goal to improve the processing of
financial transactions based on open source applications, pushing the
interoperability level in order to achieve a new semantic standardization for
financial transactions.

Material —custom professional services can be offered to adopters who lack
certain skills or need SLAs Intellectual —there’s great opportunity to develop
the professional profile by taking on the technical challenges open source
projects have to offer Recognition —open source communities reward each of their
members based on the value of their contributions Competitive —the opportunity
to work for state of the art technological projects, with high impact on several
industries.

Here are a few more examples of popular open source civic hacking projects:
OneBusAway (on GitHub) City budget visualizations (on GitHub) 311 Service
Tracker (on GitHub) Flu Shot Finder (on GitHub) StreetMix (on GitHub) CityVoice
(on GitHub)

The open source movement, built on the ‘marketplace of ideas’ and the
scalability of collaboration, is swallowing the proprietary world. To understand
where the entire tech world is going, I believe we need to keep a close eye on
these five open source trends:

Introduction to OpenStack with Sandy Walsh from Rackspace This is a 30 minute
video that is one the best videos I've come across that can help introduce
OpenStack to someone completely new to the project. The talk is not too
technical and gives a broad overview of the project and the architecture. Walsh
talks about what OpenStack is, what it is not, how the project got started, some
of the core projects, and he outlines the architecture and scalability of
OpenStack.

Here I shared 10 ways to get involved in an open source project without writing
any code.
